---
layout: post
author: Drew DeVault
title: SDK v2 released
---

Though KnightOS development is slow, it is steady. The project never dies,
despite long periods of stagnation, because every so often someone comes around
and works on some new features that inspire others (myself included) to stir
from idleness and contribute for a while.

In this case, the feature was [decimal floating point
support](https://github.com/KnightOS/kernel/pull/179), contributed by new
contributor ajcord. This feature deserves its own blog post, but first I want to
announce a more user-visible change that occurred as a result: SDK v2. For some
time now, I've wanted to do some heavy refactoring on the KnightOS SDK, and I
was inspired to do so before I took ajcord's work and build a calculator app
with the old SDK.

The new SDK has a much cleaner codebase, and is much more flexible and amenable
to new features. The v1 series was one of my first Python projects, and even
then I knew it was bad. With a few more years of Python experience stirred in,
v2 is much nicer. Done away is the project.py megafile, and now workspaces,
dependencies, and templates are all managed by isolated modules.

New user-facing features include an offline cache of packages and kernels, which
are symlinked into workspaces. The old approach required an internet connection
and re-downloaded kernels and packages for every project you were working on.
The other major feature is a long-requested one: the ability to build local
copies of your dependencies instead of manually building them and copying them
into `.knightos/packages`. Now, you can just use `knightos install core/corelib
--local-path=../corelib` and it will automatically build `../corelib` when
compiling your project.

[Click here](/sdk) for instructions for installing or updating the KnightOS SDK.

In other news, KnightOS turned 8 years old last month! Thanks to ajcord, it'll
finally be possible to use your calculator to do math with KnightOS soon.
Another blog post will come soon with the details.
