---
# vim: tw=80
layout: post
author: Noam Preil
title: Scas updates
---

KnightOS holds a special place in my heart, and it probably always
will. It's lodged right next to some of the tubes, and the doctors say
there's no way I would survive attempting to remove it. It's a tragedy
really, but I make the most of it. Your pointy swords won't ensnare me
forever, KnightOS! Eventually I'll be dead! Ha!

Jokes aside, I really love KnightOS, but I've spent a lot more time
*thinking* about it than actually working on it, at least until
recently. However, it *did* directly influence my self-studies for
nearly my entire time in high school.

During my time in high school, I often spent hours on end studying
whatever caught my interest. At one point, my class was on a field trip,
but I couldn't tell you where we went if my life depended on it. The
entire time we were walking around, I had my face buried in an
introductory book on assembly. That's how I first learned of the concept
of an ABI, parameter passing, registers, and so on.

The very fact that I consider myself a systems programmer can be
directly traced back to my discovery of KnightOS. It's no exaggeration
to say that if I hadn't found KnightOS, I would never have started
working on Project Tricarbon (a compiler toolchain project), and I
likely wouldn't be a Zig contributor, and I would never have met a lot
of amazing people.

I'll probably continue working on KnightOS for a very long time. KnightOS
will never die, but it has a habit of taking long naps from time to
time. Recently, it decided to wake up, and gave me a bit of a nudge.
Scas (the next-gen KOS assembler [at least until I decide to do it from
scratch again :P]) needed some affection!

The results: with approximately six hours worth of work spread over a
week, I reduced the memory leaked when building the C template program
from 964251 bytes... to less than two thousand bytes. Every single
compiler warning has been fixed. Where before Valgrind reported over
five thousand errors, it now reports none. The only reason there are
still any leaks left is because I needed CI to fail until I finished
working on a different patchset, and I set it to fail if there was any
memory leak whatsoever.

Now that scas is more reliable, I'm working on getting scas building the
core of KnightOS: the kernel itself! I hope to finish it within
a few weeks, make a few changes, and release scas 1.0! For now, we'll
have to settle for scas 0.4, which has many, many improvements over
0.3.4 (which was released way back in February of 2019):

* Explicit imports work!
* Relative labels work! (thanks Snektron!)
* Nearly every single memory leak is gone
* Every memory error with typical asm is gone (there are likely still a
few on more obscure paths, which I'll be fixing once the kernel is done)
* Improved support for running scas on big endian systems
* Architecture overrides
	* Now, if you write a custom ISA definition, you can run
	`scas -a x86.tab`
* 32-bit support!
	* A new directive, `dl`, inserts 32-bit values
* Bugfixes galore!
* Better error handling

We're currently on 0.4.2; 0.4.1 added a hotfix and the `-h` / `--help`
option, and 0.4.2 was the memory leak fixer-upper :)

